# Automation with VirtualBox, Vagrant & Chef
Scaling up to robust lab enviroment for automation using:
- Chef
- Vagrant
- VirtualBox

## Prepping the compute element

### 1. If using windows disable Hyper-V
Disable Hyper-V & reboot using PowerShell ```Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Hyper-V-All```

### 2. Download VirtualBox Application
Follow default prompts, download from https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads is a software defined hypervisor for creating virtual machines. The Chef and Vagrant application works well with VirtualBox. 

### 3. Download Vagrant Application
Follow default prompts, download from https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads the application allows you to deploy VMs using CLI in a consistent manner.

### 4. Download Chef Workstation
Follow defaults prompts, download from https://www.chef.io/downloads/tools/workstation the application is open-source that provides template deployment for OS

### 5. Create Poject Directory
Using PowerShell create a folder to store the nested VM config files.
`New-Item -Type Directory -Name 'myproject1' -Path ~\Desktop`

### 6. Create a README file
I recommend creating a README file to write down configuration of the project/deployment, to-do items, and etc. It's a good practice to document as you build for easy references.

### 7. Enabled SSH for compute element
Enabled ssh for remote access, personally it's easier to managed the deployment using a terminal
- Optional download a code editior to easily read & write the vagrant files (written in ruby, yaml, etc.) on the compute elemenet


## Test VirtualBox Application

### 1 - Start the config
On a linux instance run `sudo /sbin/vboxconfig` ensure all checks are cleared.

## Testing Vagrant Application
Run vagrant commands to ensure application installed correctly

### 1 - Start/Initialize the Project
Navigate to the project folder and initialize a vagrant config file `vagrant.exe init hashicorp/bionic64` note bionic64 is a maintained custom image of Ubuntu by hashicorp.

### 2 - Start the vagrant VM installation
Run `vagrant.exe up` this will initiate the build process, it will look for the vagrant version of ubuntu if not available it will download from the Vagrant Cloud https://app.vagrantup.com/ubuntu/boxes/bionic64

### 3 - Destory the vagrant instance
Run `vagrant.exe destroy` this will destroy the vagrant vm instance.


## Test Chef Application

### 1 - Create a Chef Project Subfolder 
I recommend creating the subfolder within the same project directory for easy management/reference example `chef_myproj`. It can get confusing as the build progress with new files and folders. Hence take the time to plan out the folder structure for the project. 

### 2 - Initialize a Chef cookbook (a.k.a template)
Naviagate to the project folder and use `chef generate cookbook chef_myproj` note chef_myproj is the subfolder where all the configuration files for Chef will be saved in.

### 3 - Test build with kitchen
Run `kitchen list` to test deployable vagrant vm instances

